Hi, in this segment,
I'm going to introduce the two tasks of
named entity recognition and
information extraction, methods for
getting simple structured
information out of text documents.
Let's start with information extraction.
The goal of information
extraction systems is to find and
understand limited
relevant parts of a text.
And normally,
we're going to run it in the context
where the system gathers information
across many pieces of text.
And the goal of doing this
information-gathering
is to be able to produce some sort
of structured representation of
the relevant information.
So, you can think of it as instances
of a database relations that
rose in the database table or
as a knowledge base.
And when we do information extraction,
we can have one of two goals.
One goal is to directly help
people to organize information, so
that it's useful to people.
And the other possibility is to put the
information in semantically precise forms.
So, commonly, computers for
other downstream information processing
tasks won't be able to perform them, if
the input is just natural language text.
But if we can have pulled out
various kinds of relations such as
a database table, then, it's very easy to
do subsequent data mining and processing.
So, the kind of information that
IE systems extract is clear,
factual information, the kind of who did
what to whom when kind of information.
So, let's take a look
at an example of that.
So, here are a couple of examples.
One's gathering earnings, profits,
board members, headquarters, and
if this kind of factual information
about companies from company reports.
So, the idea is that the system
can look through the texts and
then, it sees okay, here's the name of a
company, and then, it's talking about its
headquarters, and it says that
the headquarters are located in, so that's
kind of an indicator of a headquarter's
location, Melbourne, Australia.
And what we're going to get
out of that then is this
relation which you can think of as
an instance of a database table.
That's only one example.
There are lots of other examples.
Another example is this
one that I show here.
There are lots of cases in biotech's
mining, so learning drug-gene
product interactions,
learning subcellular localizations,
lots of relation of interest to
bioscientists in various ways
have been worked on in
information extraction systems.
In the more consumer space, information
extraction is now available and
I think popular in various
applications like either Apple or
Google mail, or is used in web indexing.
So, here's a little
example from Apple mail.
And so, here,
there's this date.
And so, Apple mail recognized
that there was a date there and
put in that little arrow box.
And when I hold that down, it's then
offering to create a calendar event for
me and so,
that's kind of a little help of now
allowing me to that kind of task faster.
This kind of information extraction
is often fairly simple and
seems to be mainly based on using the kind
of regular expressions that we saw
earlier, including name lists.
Here's one more example about how
companies are starting to surface
information extraction and
search applications.
So, if I stick into Google,
bhp billiton headquarters.
As well as regular web search results,
there's actually giving me, right here,
best guess for
headquarters is Melbourne, London.
Of course, we can argue a little about
whether that's the perfect answer.
They're really kind of two
separate answers here.
BHP Billiton's actually kind of a complex
case, cause they have this complicated
jewel company structure and there is
a Melbourne office and a London office.
So, we'll call that just about correct.
Okay, that was information extraction.
Let me now go on and look at a particular
sub-task that has become very important,
named entity recognition.
So, the idea of named entity recognition
is that we're going to in particular just
look for and classify names in a text.
So, the first step is we find names.
So here, we then found a name and
in the particular of what that means is
we're finding the limits of the name,
so this one is these two tokens.
This name is this one token.
And then, once we've done that,
we're going to classify the names.
So, we're going to say that this
name here is a person name.
This here is the name of an organization.
This is a date.
And then, we have a sequence
of further person names.
All right, these one's Rob Oakeshott and
goes across the line break.
So, to say a little bit more
precisely what the task is,
we have this sort of phrase
of Named Entity Recognition.
It's a little bit of a code word
these days that reflects the history.
The idea of it was that entities
were meant to refer to
discrete things in the world.
So, I am an entity,
Stanford University is an entity,
but something like sand or
air isn't an entity,
that there's not a specific
delineated physical thing.
And then, the idea of named were
that some entities have names.
So, I, Christopher Manning, have a name,
but the chair i'm sitting in
as I record this, it is also an entity,
it's a discrete physical thing, but
it doesn't actually have a name attached
to it, so it's not a named entity.
That's the kind of philosophical history.
In practices, the word is used
in named entity recognition,
that's not quite what it means.
because effectively, what we're doing is
using named entity recognition to mean,
easily distinguishable names or
other things in text that we can pick out.
So, in particular 2010, so
things like dates, times,
quantities are normally
regarded as named entities.
Although, according to the original
starting point of the name, something like
a date or a chemical or a protein isn't
actually an entity at all, but we always
include those kinds of things when we're
building named entity recognition systems.
Okay, so what is the use of named
entity recognition systems?
Well, named entities,
if you identify them in a text,
they're something that can be indexed or
linked off.
So, as I note down below, many companies
make use of various techniques for
taking into these on web pages, and
then, they can provide links off of
those entities to bio pages or
topic pages, or other things of that sort.
So, there are a whole bunch of commercial
products that run as web services
that allow you to do that kind of thing.
If in general you want to be crawling
the web and picking up sentiment,
we discussed earlier, detecting
sentiment as to whether it's positive or
negative, but you will then also need to
work out who the sentiment is about, or
what the sentiment is about.
And so, at that point,
you need to be picking up company or
product names in the text, and
that's a task of named entity recognition.
But there are lot of other uses
when named entity recognition
is a subcomponent of a larger task.
And so, commonly,
when you are doing information extraction,
a lot of what you're doing is
actually identifying named entities,
and then,
working out the relationship between them.
So, we'll talk later
about question answering.
And in question answering, for various
kinds of questions, often the answers
are named identities, when did
something happen, or who did something.
And so, it helps a lot for
question answering,
if you have good named entity extraction.
Another example that we also saw of how
people use named entity recognition that
plays off this having semantically
interpreted information
is to use it in then various
kinds of things like
calendaring applications where you're
making use of the semantic interpretation.
Okay, I hope that's enough to have given
you guys a good sense of these two tasks,
named entity recognition of simply picking
out concrete names of objects, people,
organizations, etc., or quantities,
dates, times, and things like that.
And then,
the bigger task of information extraction
where the goal was to pick out particular
relations both from the database table,
from pieces of unstructured
natural language text.